Banas yen just for the audio sync you
probably would notice about me but I had
ceramics in my family so my great my
great aunt was a courier ceramicist and
as you know that's unusual where that's
the only thing she did you know like
24/7 for 50 years of her life whistling
yeah she's she's a weird
so in Toronto and it was actually quite
close to the kind of the last home I was
in with my parents obviously we moved to
a few different houses so even though
she was my great-aunt we were unusually
close to her like I have brothers and
sisters I've never met they're my
brothers but we know but there are other
issues my great-aunt but we actually had
a meaningful relationship and I thought
it was meaningful it's the way so you'll
know the significance she did salt glaze
so glazed ceramics yeah that's right so
you know and that's the thing where she
depth she build the urn the build sorry
build the whole environment you do know
build the kiln right and then it would
right right right
and the kiln gets destroyed in the
process like you use it a certain number
of times then you rebuild it then you
start again with the new kiln see that
was that was a thing you know my
father's comment was that she was really
great at these at the surface effects at
the color and aesthetic but that
structure and form was not really her
strong suit so I think he probably had a
point
[Music]
well I assume so incredibly mom you
mentioned being in university I assume
what you studied University was
unrelated to pottery that the pottery
thing you've been doing since 14 and
then your academic studies are armored
[Music]
cuz I wanted to go travel I grew up in
Los Angeles
my whole life really academic and pretty
challenging academic competitive clearly
from elementary school all the way to
high school and this is not exactly my
vibe I'm more into travel and art and
things like that
so I decided to go into art school but I
wanted to take a year off before
starting and my life's just transformed
in my interest so much during that year
that I realized actually didn't want to
go study
ceramics full-time so I ended up
transferring to Colorado College the
small liberal arts school in Colorado
Springs great but you get myself for me
I mean I'm interested in meeting all
kinds of vegans but that makes me really
hopeful you can be an important voice in
veganism in the future you know with
that kind of Education the ceramics is
great you know especially you know Ernie
the great thing with slightly ceramics
is basically that you're earning a
living in a really ethically positive
way because you know like I've done so
many jobs people see my resume look ID
humanitarian work in Cambodia you know
and it's like that sounds really
positive I did you give audio but I can
start talking through the corruption and
the conflict of interest like all the
morally murky stuff in that workplace
and that line of work it's like you know
something like ceramics I mean unless
you're killing people to get clay
I mean clay is is easy to ethically
source clay
[Laughter]
is probably the impact to your health
it's early it's pretty dangerous on
glazes are full of silicon particles and
minerals that are really unhealthy so if
you go to any like professional ceramic
studios they will have specific rooms
for certain chemicals for glazed in you
have to wear masks and most full time
ceramicist right I am cancer related
lung issues from inhaling oil with the
particles and stuff like that which is
unfortunate but there are ways that you
can be mindful of that like nowadays
there's lots of vacuums and ceramic
studios that are constantly pulling in
like materials but old-school Potter's
they all died early of like water
related dishes because it's pretty
dangerous material and especially back
then
yes yeah and the colors to the coloring
I assume probably all of it is basically
toxic but I wonder if that's what my
great-aunt
you know she formed like a union of
potters and they got their own space
they took over a factory and that might
have been one of the considerations so
but she lived oh and all of them
actually all the potters in that they
lived past 90 in a note at no health
problems but they set up their own yeah
well no but this this was the
interesting that's why I mention it so
they were a group of just five they were
all female potters and they were the
same age and they all kind of ethnically
similar though kind of looked similar
frankly we saw the five of them San
Diego they all hated each other
each one of them thought the others
their work was garbage it's just a
typical thing with human nature it's
like you might think wow this is a
really positive workspace no they're all
sitting there with luggage now you don't
know you you think you know salt glaze
only I know salt right right that that
competitor I'm not a sports guy I lift
weights to stay in shape but you know
people say that about uh sorry that the
famous famous basketball player from the
Chicago Bulls Michael Jordan you know
Michael Jordan the real Michael Jordan
which is now much talked about that he
was just this unbelievably cruel vicious
kind of son of a [ __ ] who hated
everyone he played against hated all the
other members
of his own team and this is kind of
covered up for the sake of you know
doing product endorsements Botero
everyone who work with him said no you
have no idea how vicious this guy was
but that for him was well I keep telling
debo I'm not a nice guy but we'll see
we'll see yeah all right I saw you at
her you have a trailer for on the on the
bike so that's white yeah that's quite
noisy I've done long-distance cycling to
back when I was in Thailand I did over
100 kilometres a day I do like 115
thereabouts so you know long distance
but not crazy long distance you gotta
turn this no I wouldn't do that I can
remember sometimes when I was on the
bike to save weight I throw my own
clothing in the garbage
like the bike trip would start with 10
t-shirts and it would end with 6
t-shirts got a few holes in it cycling
gets you into yeah anyway a lot of
people forget that about me too
that like I used to say that whenever I
was making the videos criticising
durianrider I'd be like you know during
writer and I have a lot of things in
common well you know we both used to do
long-distance cycling in Thailand and
whatever you we're not we're not sailing
look last thing about about baking you
know my own future career path is
actually about about this kind of
hands-on a thing you're doing ceramics
my university degree is not related to
my first Universe degrees in political
science so actually not that different
and I did take classes in ecology I was
very much interested in politics because
you when I did that but my plan has
become a baker so I'm enrolled with my
girlfriend Melissa we're going to bake
College we're gonna do you know the
whole range show bread and pastry and
everything and we're gonna see if I can
use baking as a platform for positive
direction yeah you know just going to
the end of the but in the short term
yeah I rise to the southern tip of Baja
which I'll be there about three weeks
and then you take a ferry directly east
over to the mainland Mexico salon and
then from there you know connect with
America and can keep going from there
yeah so I you know I pretty radically
changed my lifestyle I was doing these
bike tours in college I don't know if
you're interested in this I used to do
long distance cycling so you know it is
interesting right
[Music]
I suppose across the United States I had
no experience recycling I was a
vegetarian at the time I was an 18 year
old vegetarian kid no cycling no losses
a low travelling experience but I just
heard about people doing long distance
bike tours and I grew up in LA my
parents did nothing outdoors I lived a
very city life and I was like I want to
see this whole country and see the
places that I've never been so my friend
and I we took a train with our bikes to
Virginia Beach from LA and we biked over
80 days back to LA and that just changed
my life open my mind to traveling to
cycling I fell in love with it I did a
few different things that year I
volunteered at an orangutan orphanage in
Borneo Indonesia I did some solo
backpacking in the Sierras actually
worked for a Potter in LA for a period
of time and I fell in love with Vice
boring so during the summers in college
I would take little trips like when I
was in Thailand after the bike festival
and when if he came back home me and my
friends we bites from Chiang Mai
Singapore over 40 days and if I sell my
bike touring and I obviously started my
youtube channel my second year of
college with the intention the whole
time and maybe this'll disappoint you
because I know you are in some vegans
kind of be in the academic sphere but I
don't have a future and be an
environmental law that's I just know
what was what interests me I really want
to try to just inspire people through
making wild entertaining videos and I'm
also travelling in places where people
are not exposed to the concepts of
sustainability and veganism if you can
think about it on a bike store you have
to go to every single small little town
and so that's another way that I like to
advocate for the things that my belief
is business but after graduating college
you know I I moved back to the Bay Area
why Lizzie and I were still dating we
broke up a few months later and then I
decided I really wanted to try to make
my full-time thing by touring making
tons of YouTube videos and trying to get
supported by my viewer in to follow me
because as you know
kind of views that I did I made like a
hundred three hundred dollars month
YouTube but thanks to patreon through
small donations as people you know all
over the world who are pledging one two
three dollars a month and you know it's
been like a year now of full-time
traveling off of making videos and my
life is so simple I don't have a card
payment I don't have a rent and they're
really only paying for food for Maggie
and I and you know we sleep outside most
of the time so I can make it work and I
really intend to continue biking like
this for a number of years and it's a
different style of bike touring you know
you meet a lot of people bike touring or
putting out a hundred kilometers a day
and they're driven to Hong Kong and
that's cool because most people have to
go back to their jobs but I'm making
this my like semi permanent light so we
keep it mellow on the bike we bike for a
few days at a time takes a couple of
weeks or months off like I'm really just
traveling trying to learn about the
cultures my Spanish has gotten a little
much better I you know I'm going to
become fluent in Spanish for sure within
the next year or two and I love it it's
such a rewarding lifestyle talk be hard
and there's certain sacrifices but I am
enjoying it so much and I've been on the
bike now nine months consistently and as
long as the big rig don't hit me on the
road I'll keep doing it
III can think of the sexes the sacrifice
is already not a lot of sex not a lot of
showers not a lot of sleeping on flat
surfaces but dogs a dog man the end of
the day
[Music]
one of my subscribers here in a ballast
y'all can hunt you down man intersect
with you somewhere in southern Mexico
yeah hey look just just my sling you
said in passing there you said that I'm
into supporting you know youtubers kind
of being in academia you know I have
many many videos talking about how awful
academia is how negative my experience
is that it's corrupt and terrible and
awful most of the time and there are
exceptions you can meet people at a
positive experience University but
they're there they're few and far
between in my generation I'd say so it's
it's not really that I'm Pro academia
and you know even the decision to bake
bread for a living it's not a
conventional academic decision or even
the decisions in might even the
decisions in my past like going to
Cambodia the new humanitarian work and
stuff it's not you know it's not an
academic path it's not leading me back
that way or what have you but school
sound is fine no problem at all you've
been totally fun so far ago anyway you
know the the thing is in the context of
talking to durianrider specifically I
was talking you know about people and
two people who had dropped out of high
school because of during writers advice
in some other cases they dropped out of
college and they were bragging about it
you know they said oh wow this guy you
know part of his message was hate your
parents part of his message was drop out
of school part of his message was that
it was really easy to just start earning
money on YouTube which a lot of people
went for so this was an intoxicating
combination right sure so in that in
that context I'm I seem like the guy
who's saying hey kid staying in school
which there's some there's some truth to
but you know it's it's not like it's not
like I'd say in a simple way like
getting a PhD is better than working in
pottery you know I pottery as you said
it's a really ethically positive field
that's one of the reasons like if my
daughter told me she wanted to go into
ceramics that probably the first
I'd say you know it's one of the few
really ethically positive jobs you can
get whereas you know a lot of work you
know it's the reality is if someone
feels that in their heart like for me
throughout my college I got so much more
out of my university experience than
just the academics I did a lot of vegan
organizing I learned how to start
clothes and you learn so much about
social interaction and how to get
through a shitty class that is annoying
but how to just work hard and get
through it College teaches you so much
more than just the academic nature of
what you're studying but if someone's
out there who wants to do something that
they can't study in college they really
truly do want to be the most famous
youtuber in the world and College will
hold them back from that then sure you
got a listen to your heart but I don't
think if you have the opportunity
financially to go to college I don't see
how that will take you further back I
started my youtube channel while I was
in college you can do both at the same
time and so I say if you have the
opportunity to and it doesn't sound
terrible to you you should do it but
also we do live in the world - got to be
honest that you don't have in your
nature oh yeah okay hey sorry sorry I
just said it's kind of where I stand on
the spectrum at the University
so look I mean obviously I don't think
we have any any great conflict in terms
of in terms of durianrider and the the
future of the movement did the the
connection cut out no no but you know
it's been a it's been a really positive
conversation at this point you know part
of the reason I made the video I did
about you
that moment was just that I saw that
vegan Ava had finally turned against the
rain rider and you know just mind well
she was a personal favor when you were
in Thailand her no do you guys think
no yeah but she was one of the kind of
closest personal friends Tim several of
the people who knew him personally
including vegan foot soldier and angry
vegan and someone have talked to me at
some length about their feelings and so
on and for all of them I mean they felt
at some stage the same way that you felt
because you just said this guy was a
friend to you or he was nice to you and
and add a certain level of loyalty at
some point it's this guy is
[Music]
and during someone who's just so
positive like if he was the vegan
movement at that time calling her like
daddy issues coffee drinker
complete fabrications and lies right
that made no sense so so I made that
video thank you
we were only coming near festival
because you know we looked up to them in
a way because we were insuring and
that's how we got into the beading
community and I would say during Ryder
wasn't that controversial there wasn't
as many instances of him having
disorderly conduct which I'll bet into
my stance on him now which is definitely
evolved from when I would make those
videos which I'm guessing you didn't
think was cowardly correct what I'm
saying like dude what the park what's up
with that and then when we went to the
festival I think that video that I
filmed which you referenced I do it man
is he talking was one of the first times
ever that he is like admitted to the
face of someone like hate sorry he
specifically said I was ugly and I
didn't rant about something I shouldn't
have done it
that was so from that experience just to
keep in mind I'm I probably have a few
thousand subscribers at that point
yes graduated college during Ryder
shoots this video on in Thailand at his
festival
he shoots this video with Izzy saying
I'm sorry so my immediate instinct water
should I make sure that make the best of
it sure yeah I'm just like you know what
I really want to be a youtuber why would
I call [ __ ] right now and just say like
[ __ ] this dog is terrible just so that I
can get that toxic durianrider drama hey
so I made a video being pretty big
saying maybe not that bad whatever and
then you took that as saying hey Jackson
you're being cowardly all these people
have come out and says if this guy's not
judge look at all these lies that he's
doing so if you want to continue to say
that that was cowardly and you think I'm
cowardly at that moment I can own up to
that
alright I was trying to play nice I
didn't wanna make any and I also didn't
know all of the information I had never
met you I had never
we met him and I didn't want to come out
with claim because I literally didn't
have any claims I had no experience with
the guys we're going to Thailand and
talking to him a little and how do we
know who to trust on the Internet
why should I trust you versus someone
else or someone else who I'd never met
so it's confusing and I didn't want to
make a staunch video to say this guy's a
terrible guy because of this this and
this I just wanted to play nice and I
was younger at that time and I can now
say and feel free if you have any
questions on that like I want to be as
transparent and open and get everything
out as possible so yeah if you have any
questions about by feeling their
experiences that I had please ask and
after I'm done you know with this little
spiel but I would say now making a the
most modern contemporary opinion I can
say right now is that based on this dude
during writers actions on the internet
the only kind of person that can attract
this much negative energy it's someone
that you probably shouldn't trust and
it's so obvious like no good person who
is telling the truth and only doing good
things can be such a polarizing stare
it's not possible negative energy
attracts negative energy um I also want
to say that I think he is completely
irrelevant in the big picture the only
people that know or care about during
Ryder or honestly care about watching
this video are people who are within the
community I'm not saying that right this
videos stupid because people are in this
community and this community has changed
people's lives it changes my life for
the better being vegan getting nutrition
cycling fruit improves my life
significantly but I think that it's fair
to say that anyone that attracts such
negative energy and so many people
saying bad things about him it
definitely has to be a slightly sketchy
person who was trying to attract that
energy and it's probably live for the
purpose I mean he's such an obvious
narcissist anyone that makes any claims
against him he attacks them so
brutally you know we're having this
conversation now because there was some
negative claims towards me and we can be
friends and has an actual reasonable
conversation you can't have that kind of
conversation I'm guessing with
durianrider and that says a lot about
him he'll spin everything off and no
they're just jealous they're just
victims like what are you please no
so I guess my stance right now is that
do I want to come out and saying this
sighs terrible don't visit us guys I'm
not going to make those videos because
he's they're relevant weren't people
that people that are relevant in the
vegan community are celebrities people
like Moby who are artists and have any
people like Kip and he is or making
cowspiracy or actually putting out
quality information to promote veganism
to make this a better world for animals
and for people in the environment do I
think that during the rider has
veganized a lot of people and that the
animals are probably stoked about that
yes you know we can't defend that but to
think that he has a big impact on the
vegan world and community now is
ridiculous right but at the height and
at the height of his fame before he
broke up with really before his channel
tumbled he said I was a pedophile he
said I was a sexual predator and what
you just said is that he's not very
relevant outside of the vegan community
but that is my community that's where I
live and work so he he denounced me he
denounced me and he defend me in a way
that was very powerful and very real
impacts of my life inside veganism and
outside veganism when I first met my
girlfriend so she's on my channel a lot
lately if people haven't seen it so ever
say it's not like a secret girlfriend
when I first met my girlfriend her
father and her two brothers googled my
name and found all these lies
durianrider had told about me another
person who was just like a new fan of
mine sent me email and then said oh wow
I found all this dirt on you this these
terrible things you look and there's
there's no basis to any of it in terms
of the stories he made up of me it's not
even a he-said she-said story like where
there's my version events and there's
the girl's version events there never
was
girl Julia boar she said openly that she
had never met me which is true we never
met each other and that I'd never sent
her like a flirtatious you know nothing
like that ever happens you me and her
and the other women were imaginary
but you said I mean this is the thing
you said you knew he lied and made
things up this is your attention you in
all your videos you said that like even
the more positive videos you said you
were like a where the jury writer was
crazy it made stuff up it's like well he
did he just made up that I had a sex
scandal in Quebec where I was just
sleeping with like so many vegan women
and there was some skill and it's like
dude I haven't been to Quebec in years
Canada's a really big country from east
to west it's like I'm on the west coast
of Canada enrolled in university classes
I have like this story is it's so
obviously false in so many ways and
where are these girls who I slept with
they believe me if I was getting laid
with a bunch of vegans in Quebec they'd
be on my youtube-channel those girls
would be I'd be doing videos of them I
wouldn't I wouldn't be hiding real
information but and that is a less
trustworthy source at this point and
considering that that's really really
tough man I
can't imagine it wasn't one with a big
following was saying lies about
pedophilia on the internet about me that
would be a terrible traumatic experience
and again you are correct
which I trust you right now even though
I don't know any real information I feel
like I have to keep saying that but you
know you know let's just give in that
you're given that supposing that you're
completely honest right I am definitely
really sorry that that happens very
shortly
it is hard lying about this Saturday
terrible terrible action and if that is
all true I can definitely publicly say
that only a monster would had publicly
defamed someone like that and and I hope
that in the circumstances where I wasn't
as criticizing him it's not because I
was holding all this back because I was
a coward and I was afraid of during
Ryder
I just didn't know the information and I
don't watch all over look but now it's
given that I seen everything
given his behavior I'm sorry to snoop
low like this but having different
girlfriends 20 years younger then you
just crazy guy that you probably can't
trust and I'm really sorry to do that to
bandits and I can publicly say that
dudes probably pretty wack right so I
really don't judge durianrider by his by
his private sex well sex life to be
honest you to me there are so many other
yeah it's it's unseemly
you know his relationships with women
yeah it yeah but there are all these
other red flags of the guy like so when
I first talked about this with vegan
gains so vegan gains supported me he
said during Ryder was wrong and I was
right and that was it that was a big
deal because bean gains was at that time
the single biggest YouTube channel
unnatural vegan and a bunch of other
girls were but you were there and that
was the other thing like vegan gains
wasn't there you were in Thailand at
that time when it came down so I kind of
assumed you and his he knew a little bit
more about a
was going on was just just that the
controversy was such a big deal
generally people were gossiping but you
know what I mean it was a big deal in
the air YouTube channel and help to make
sure on the videos because so look so
just I just don't want to finish the the
point but so when I first talked to
being gains one of the questions I asked
him was because vegan gains of one of
the things this channel does this really
criticizes people about fake health
information like fake weight loss
information fake steroid information and
I said why didn't you notice the red
flag
the durianrider claimed he could cure
Crohn's disease so crows diseases are
really serious incurable disease and he
made all the German writer made these
contradictory claims about Crohn's
disease and again even if you don't have
someone like me criticizing them if you
just watch what he's saying it's obvious
that he's lying from the inconsistencies
in what he's saying like the self
contradictory and things that
scientifically don't make sense so like
for you for you vegan gains for Richard
it should be really obvious this this
dude is lying you know in a serious way
so there's some examples of that that
are completely dry like they don't have
anything to do with sex but it's like
this is a really serious red flag that
this is someone he was lying and
manipulating to people whose fame is
based on on something negative and then
on the other hand again this is the side
I would have thought you'd know about
like my interaction with durianrider so
he didn't just accuse me of being a
pedophile and a sexual predator he said
he was gonna have a gang of people beat
me up he said he was gonna have people
stab me in Chiangmai repeatedly and I
had to go back to Chiangmai for the
court case later now already that makes
one side of the conversation a little
bit less credible than the other because
I haven't said anything like that right
like who's lying here who's threatening
to have someone beaten up or stabbed but
some right that's the case you'll make
it right
you find that you're saying is
completely a mind of life again if he's
fabricating all this the whole thing is
again she what well I'm just saying it's
not credible it's not like you'd watch
you're saying
but anyway so when he was he demanded to
see my criminal record and I was just
about to start a job in China so I
actually had my criminal record check
with me like normally I wouldn't I just
had all like here you go but I did
because I was starting a new job and for
that job you it was a job in the
university as a teacher you needed to
have a criminal record check to do that
kind of job in China so he's like oh
well look it's a it's a funny
coincidence my passport here's my
criminal record check I sent it to him
and he responds and by the way I was
always willing to talk to him I was
willing to meet in person I said look if
you want to meet in a coffee shop we do
that and I said if you actually want to
kick my ass we can meet at a boxing ring
or something like I don't care but like
you want to talk to gonna sell this I'll
meet with you and I said if you want to
meet on a street corner we can do that
too like you know I don't care and he
completely wimped out by the way he lost
his support that scene this nothing all
the lies he was thrown at them he also
told all these lies about being a tough
guy that he'd been to prison that he was
such a tough guy he used to really play
that role which again makes his side of
the story less credible and like for
someone like you also if you're just
paying attention that's like there's a
lot of things that don't add up
okay distance but the point was so he
demanded it's totally unreasonable look
if I said to you right now show me your
criminal record like it's just
unreasonable but I actually did it I was
like okay here's my criminal record
here's my passport and he immediately
wrote back and made statements on the
internet and in videos and and on tumblr
saying that my my passport was fake and
that my criminal record check was so
that's how he responds to this like if
you give him an inch he just he just
tries to raise the stakes of the
conflict that slike that's how the
confluent like obviously I could talk I
could talk for an hour but all the other
crazy shitty it but every so it's like
so I'm here being reasonable like I'm
actually willing to talk this this
through and dude so I just say I gave
you the example of my girlfriend's dad
and her brothers like this stuff
impacted my life it's impacted employers
I'm hiring for jobs
right right
so that's do you think that's the game
we play right yeah it's cool it's a long
time it's a long time for you to ignore
your dog it's reasonable she'd want a
job you know we are we the world is not
black and white durianrider is loves
animals he wants to help animals during
our to look to help people because I've
seen him help people with which he
claims about all the time you know those
are positive qualities that no one could
argue as those are positive qualities
and then he also has really really
negative qualities but clearly the
negative qualities that he's chosen to
commit are they're so far beyond the
negative that I would have as also do
something that's what you say because
people are complicated but even with the
complications of the human being a good
person doesn't make the sanatory
comments accusing someone of a
disgusting illegal activity just because
the program criticizing their
nutritional ideology let me ask you a
question why what did you start
criticizing like this questioning well
so I can tell you the the Crohn's
disease thing was one turning point
where I made videos pointing out that
specific health claims he made were
wrong and a lot of people respond to
that so
no like his fans were asking about that
because that was something he the
skinniest and everything you should
listen to him you question that and then
he comes out with these accusations like
if you get this we put it all together
that's just someone who's trying to beat
down to a pulp
anyone that argues with him you know you
put out a video maybe questioning my
behavior and now we're having a logical
conclusion people react to things if I
don't make the Phantom asourian lying
claim because I don't want to hurt
anyone I want the truth to be exposed
and it's pretty pretty clear they don't
really like the ability narcissistic
behavior well I mean look anyone can be
vegan not anyone can be a leader in the
vegan movement you know what I mean like
I'm just saying I'm not gonna take it
away during rider is a real vegan you
know I call some people Fabian's I've
had I've had conflicts with other vegans
where I said to them honestly I think
durianrider is a better person than you
because I know at least he sincerely
cares but x y&z you know like some
people I think are faked vegans that are
absolutely terrible for the movement
however someone like Jerry Reiter can't
be in a position of authority he abuses
that authority he can't be in a position
of leadership and it's obvious that the
little bit of Fame and someone that he
had from my perspective it's very clear
he's done more harm than good and I'm
not the only one we won't go into the
other cases there are other individual
people he's hurt but again you know the
other thing when you mentioned like when
you kind of asked in a vague way why did
they start hating me so intensely the
other thing was I did an interview with
a former follower of theirs
her name was Leah pram so that interview
was still on my channel I think it's
over an hour long discussion but you
know she wasn't heating on during writer
and freely but she gained a lot of body
fats
she dropped at a school she moved to
Thailand like you know she changed her
whole life because their leadership and
you know the conversation is like hey
this is pretty weird huh you know but
we're not in that conversation we're not
you know we're talking about life and
it's pretty weird man we don't know but
there's a difference between someone
who's just like a malicious [ __ ]
who's trying to cause [ __ ] versus
someone who actually has a mental
disorder
maybe double personality disorder like
and I don't know and I and I have seen
an interactive durianrider it seems
pretty functional and in society like
you know maybe he has a mental disorder
or something on the spectrum of some
emotional disorder that gets him so
angry and heard and maybe he fits this
narrative that way he's just such a good
guy so if anyone criticizes him is just
so unfair because he's been on YouTube
first and he's helped more people like
maybe dude he's created this narrative
in his head I'm the one who stood up
that's why people remember me is because
I really stood up to it but yeah a lot
of people weren't in a position where
they could a lot of people are slunk
into the shadows via going yeah yeah
now you know one of the reasons I'm okay
just being open and talking is like I
realized and I hope other people
watching this will realize that yes
during writer can have a significant
impact on your life as he had to you
which is unfortunate but for the most
part don't take people so seriously
enduring orders not God
like do you know people goodness chill
out mellow out but again I did I feel
like I can't say that's you because he
really has negatively impacted your life
so that's not yet in my life why it
might have a slightly gentle attitude to
it but it synthesizes you I can clearly
feel that okay you want to keep on
wondering all right talk about some
other things I wanted to clear up the
easy thing is I don't want any this I
guess I just want to hit any little
criticism you might have had about me in
that video just like okay I but you know
I didn't think I was laying a really
hard criticism exploring that it was
just kind of questioning you know
philosophically what's the meaning of
saying someone never was a vegan or
something you know video and to the
sense of truth that I was trying to pull
from it is that veganism as you would
probably agree versus plant-based is an
ethical ideology original thing agree I
I am gonna I so I wanted to bring up
that maybe people who have lived a
plant-based and vegan dietary lifestyle
but I'm truly in their heart done it
mainly for the nutritional or weight
loss surgeries maybe we'll call those
people not vegan keep it right did live
a vegan lifestyle and the animals don't
give a [ __ ] because where it's not being
eaten so that's like I always say that I
don't care if you're vegan or
plant-based as long as you keep doing it
because they don't care as long as
you're not you can contribute
and they're suffering so I'm sure that
it was kind of an employment for you
sure he definitely wasn't vegan for
however two or three years however she
was but you know I dated her for a long
time yeah I'll say this kind of
exclusive information content here I
think I just saw a bug bite on my cheek
those are getting karma you know when
when when we moved to Berkeley and again
this is no hasty because is he the
passionate smarter woman and she's gonna
do the things that she's interested in
she is interested in academics and many
many other things I am really into
animal rights and there was getting
people to go ethically vegan so when I
was in Berkeley and doing tons of animal
rights activism
he came to one or two things let's say
in a given month when I went to 10 or 15
she never was as into animal rights as I
was so in that video I didn't make the
claim that sure you know while she did
make some animal rights content
I heard art probably wasn't as into the
animal rights thing as it is for me and
many of my vegan friends so maybe she
was kind of really plant-based and now
as we see she's meeting all kinds of
animal products and if you're truly
intentional Eraser yes I know goes on in
10 years but I've been six years a vegan
now and I cannot imagine every animal
processing for the rest of my life but
look I think you just didn't I think you
didn't I think you didn't flesh it out
in that videos as you did here well I
think by me look you could make a
separate video talking about it because
a lot of us have been through that my
ex-wife I was married for six years and
this is another reason why the dairy
martyr thing had such an impact I have a
five-year-old daughter at that time she
was three years old and I'm in a divorce
and custody battle and it's like I've
got people on the internet saying I'm a
pedophile on a sexual predator it
doesn't just impact my employment
impacts my divorce in custody situation
it's really pretty scary that's one of
the reasons why you know it impacted my
life but my ex-wife after I split up
with her she went back to a non-vegan
time so I know I know it's like and my
current girlfriend her ex-boyfriend like
you know he became vegan because of her
and then five minutes after they split
up he went back to it so I think we can
a lot of people can relate to and I
think for the viewers I said the video I
think there's a sense of disappointment
because people did look up to her I
think people did look to her as a future
possible leader for veganism like I just
be honest I don't give a [ __ ] about the
pole-dancing a lot of pole dancers a lot
of pole dancers in LA
sorry there's no real shortage of that
but like oh wow okay here's somebody
who's vegan no I'm just saying it is to
me it's fundamentally not interesting it
doesn't make me interested in what our
next video is gonna be
whereas okay so you're someone who's
doing like biomedical sciences and
nutrition in university you're vegan you
care about these issues now I'm
interested for me that's that's the hook
that's what I think makes people or you
know interested in the probably I think
you know people should share their life
and what they're interested in on
YouTube and that's the great thing about
YouTube you can only watch the videos
that you're interested in on a certain
well look I do you appreciate that about
Channel I've watched a bunch of videos
now and I was going to say I think one
thing you and I have in common is that
we both do just keep it real we do talk
about our real life
I'm not there's no fiction there's no
artifice on my channel and like even in
that video right I don't even pretend to
be pissed off if I'm not pissed off or
something like you could see that in
that video maybe I'm not like obviously
the video would get more hits if I came
on camera and was like Plantronics a
sack of [ __ ] up or something but no I'm
just you know no but I think there is I
think I think there is an important
lesson for you to take from it because
in that case you know in case the dream
writer thing all the cards were on the
table and like I say even people who
really knew him personally even people
who support him like the guy from the
glucose network Abdullah Zainab or vegan
Ava or foot soldier but even vegan gains
vegan gains was friends with during
writer and a supporter of human freely
all these people even the people had the
most to lose by opposing during writer
and he really had the most to gain by
continuing to be his friend or supporter
all of those people the information was
there on the table to figure out Wow
Hartley's done something really immoral
so I just say I think the lesson for you
to learn is you've you've got to do that
little bit of research you know in this
case it would have just been a little
bit of good whether you reach out to me
or solve what was already out there on
the on the net because all that stuff
was there to put the pieces together you
know
and I during either videos because look
if someone's trying to start a YouTube
channel and thinking about themselves in
this situation sometimes you know very
neither has bullied certain people it's
scary to come out and be against someone
who's kind of the king and the original
king in this movement and of course you
could say it is cowardly if someone's
not going to come out and look at all
the facts and then talk about it but I'm
also going to be sympathetic to people
who just don't want to cause that drama
and attention to their lives even though
it's obviously so important to you
because you've unfortunately had to bear
a really brutal brunt of that and I'm
happy and I can now come out and
reinforce my beliefs on this so
hopefully try to lessen that it's
beating and discomfort and shittiness
that's happened to your life sure I'm
also sympathetic to people that are
scared to make videos about it because
they feel like if I go against this
bullies this bully's gonna go in beat
the [ __ ] out of me online and that's
also during rider should think is that
really the reputation that he wants that
silencing people of how they think in
fear that he's going to bully them again
that's not a person that you want to
look up to you want to look up to people
like this you can just have open logical
reasonable conversations with you know
bully mentality is not a nice thing and
I can say that I felt that form of
bullying I didn't want to make a video
against crazy dude because I didn't want
to feel the brunt of it but again I was
I understand I did say I think I think
the lesson I think the less for you to
take from it is what you actually said
in your second video that has my name in
it where you talk about the situation
you kind of say all these bad things
about during rider that you know he's a
liar you say he's totally discredited
himself you said if this is untrue and
you know what's untrue if this is untrue
during riders totally discredit all
right reasons right yeah but you could
have known nobody really it was knowable
really everyone figured it out except
you really you were one of the last
people to figure it out because there
were so many obvious signs this was this
was false but you know you say well if
if
together it is very clear and there but
again even if you just examine his
statements the the lies are quite
obvious from one side only but you could
have reached out to me whatever you know
and all the lies he told about the court
case one lie led to another of this guy
and it was all equally false but you
know you said well I know but I know but
you did you'll you did me I know but you
did make two videos you know taking
stimulus you did just think so it's not
like you chose not talking you did then
one of them one of them is a long video
and one of the short but you're saying
you did take a stand on this and you
were wrong I think if you want to be
like I say though but even I think even
if you would just looked at the threats
of violence he made against me your
opinion would have changed like even if
you everything else the same we just
knew this guy threatened davines stabbed
beaten up by again would probably have
changed your perspective but looks right
so the sensors in the middle of it was
just saying um well you did in that
video was you said okay if during
writers lying and again anyone wants to
nose knows that he really is like if
during writer's lying then he has no
credibility as terrible person and then
you say but my personal experience with
him is positive I think he's a funny guy
the next guy so you know I'm supposed
but this is turbid this is my point I
think the conclusion you have to make is
in life going ahead that's not really a
solid basis for that kind of judgment
you know with anybody or with anything
you can't you can't just say well and a
lot of people are in this position with
Donald Trump right your current
president states he's been in show
business for so long there were a lot of
people who could say oh well you know
he's a nice guy I met him at a party I
shook his hand that's not real
what we're talking about you know the
question about whether or not right okay
and I think I think face to face
probably Donald Trump is a nice guy to
have a conversation with he's funny he's
drugged he's relaxed he's been in
television for a long time even your
whole circle of friends the Donald
Trump's hung out with you know six other
people who've hung out with Donald Trump
and they all say he's a great guy but
you know at the end of the day the
question is can can poor people get
health care yes or no that's so that's
that's kind of the question okay great
so dude we're coming up to one full hour
it's been wonderful talking to you and
look I hope honestly dude I think we
should put a pin in it now but it's it's
been great to argue and I am really
genuinely open to cooperating with you
in future I also am really passionate
about the future of the vegan movement
my bicycle riding days are in the past
but you know I do also travel I'm going
back and forth to France about two weeks
from now and so on whether we can
actually meet in person or whether we
can just exchange useful information
about you know vegan events and activism
what's happening I am in this long term
and you know I
whether you settle down eventually in
Los Angeles or Portland or wherever you
end up but look believe me you know I
really am out here trying to recruit
talent and contacts for the movement not
for my YouTube channel not for my ego
okay I really you know oh that's pretty
minor but if if there's something
positive that can come out of this for
the future of the movement that's
ultimately what you tube and stay on
youtube in the first place
[Music]
on substitute and dude it was great
talking to you as well I'm really glad
it's it sucks about the YouTube world
when people just fight back and forth
without talking to face-to-face oh I'm
really glad that we could come to a
logical conclusion and be friends and
I'm much I'm much happier about the
whole situation so I appreciate you also
having me on thank you very much Jackson
Foster plant trionic we're going to give
you the link just below this video hit
him up a bonus Yin